[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: That might feel a little
bit creepy that you could spy on things
but just know, that's already possible
because WebSocket have better technology
that's been around forever.
[COUGH] So it's quite possible
that you're already doing that and
some of you may know that there
are [COUGH] software packages out
there that track mouse movements so
they can tell
marketers where people are moving their
mouse on the page or things like that.
So we're just taking advantage of that
to create a simple little demo but
it points out the fact that
there's really not much of a limit
to the sorts of things that we can send
along in our WebSocket connections even
somebody's mouse movements.
[COUGH] Now I wouldn't necessarily say
that just because we have a web socket
connection established, we should
send all communications through it.
You could think about the downsides
that can occur when you send
large amounts of data over the web socket
connection because really what you're
wanting is the lowest latency possible for
your real time communications.
If you're also doing file uploads of giant
pictures and you're doing that over web
sockets, there's a pretty good chance that
the other stuff that you want to be really
fast is gonna be slowed down by all
that giant picture sending stuff.
So I'd recommend that
you use WebSockets for
tiny little event messages like the sorts
of things we've been talking about.
And you reserve normal Ajax,
inform post sorts of communication for
your large communications like file
uploads, file downloads things like that.
But it is possible you can send binary
data over a WebSocket if you needed to.
So that is possible.
>> Speaker 2: Let's say,
like this here database.
>> Kyle Simpson: If you were going to make
an Ajax request that wanted to load up
you know one hundred records.
That's a pretty substantial
amount of data and
I probably wouldn't do
that over a WebSocket.
But on the other hand,
if you had like a data binding thing where
you were updating one record on the server
and you wanted to send that one record
out to the client really, really fast.
You could send one records worth of
data over that WebSocket without too
much of a problem.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
any more questions about WebSocketr
how we've worked with node?
>> Speaker 3: So
WebSocket would be more appropriate for
if you wanted to do multiplayer games?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
The most common use cases are games,
real time chats,
collaboration apps like when you're
drawing something and showing other people
or typing something and
other people seeing what you're typing.
Real time stock feeds things like that.
So anything where you have small
bits of data that needs to be
transmitted as quickly as possible.
That's really kind of the sweet spot for
WebSocket.
And as we said we've made a massive leap
in terms of you an order of magnitude
reduction in terms of latency
over the typical AJAX request and
response lifecycle.
So we've gotten to the point where
it's practical that you can actually
have a mouse moving in near real time.